# Javascript & code

Software is the realization of Alan Turing’s universal machine. This is a computational machine that can replicate any other computational machine after being fed a set of instructions. These instructions indicate how the machine is tgo be configured and act on any data. Through software, we can reconfigure a machine to do anything we darn well please, including teaching the machine to behave like a different machine (see also, emulators).

There a many many different types of software languages, the ones that I think are most interesting are the least useful to us. Generally speaking, languages can be laid out along a continuum of “high-level” to “low-level”. As we’re not planning on talking directly to the silicon in the chips we’re using, we can use a higher level language that abstracts the basic instruction set.

The general idea behind software is that it abstracts machine instructions (a series of 0s and 1s) and gives us something closer to natural human language to address the computer with. p5.js is a javascript library that abstracts the base language of javascript (no relation to java). Javascript itself is highly abstracted from the hardware of a computer, and p5.js makes it even more approachable.

While you can write software anywhere, a scrap of paper, text pad, back of your hand, it’s best to write it in an application that will understand what to do with the code provided. With javascript, the code runs in a web browser. It's an example of an interpeted language. The code itself resides in a webpage (made of HTML and CSS) and the browser interpets what to do. This means that the end result isn't an executable, or standalone application. It lives inside another document.